Already with that out of the way let's start learning javascript.
So the first of these primitive types we'll talk about is no no.
Is pretty self-explanatory.
It is a way of storing or representing a number in JavaScript so other languages have multiple different
types for numbers.
For example some languages store decimal numbers differently than whole numbers or integers but in JavaScript
we have one type of number.
It's just called number.
That's it.
No works with positive numbers negative numbers whole numbers integers decimal numbers which are also
often called floats.
I'll show you a couple examples.
If I open up my console again I'll pop this out into its own window.
I can just enter a number like 13 and hit enter.
It doesn't really do anything.
The console just tells me Oh yeah I know 13.
Here you go.
It's not storing it.
It's not saving it.
I'm just simply referencing a number.
So we've got numbers like this.
We've got negative numbers.
We've got decimal numbers.
And because of the way javascript stores numbers there are some important limitations to be aware of.
If you ever need extreme precision with your numbers like you have that say something like this.
All right.
Well that works still but if I keep adding zeros there we go.
I was 1 0.
You can see that we lose that entire decimal portion.
So it does not store an infinitely precise number which makes sense.
Everything is represented in memory.
And there is a maximum size for those numbers.
Now it's pretty rare that you would come up against this at least when you're starting out.
Most of the time you don't need precision to this point but it is important to be aware of.
Now while we're in the console here one other thing you can do that I like to do often is clear my console.
It looks like this clear and parentheses.
This is actually something called a function which we'll talk about later.
It doesn't do much except make you space so you can now type more.
OK.
So numbers on their own aren't that useful just typing a number and getting it spit back to us is great
but we can't really do much with it until we talk about these basic operations.
So with numbers we have different mathematical operations that we can use kind of like a calculator
and on their own without other things in JavaScript without what we're going to learn later it really
is just a glorified calculator.
But it's important to start here.
So we have things like addition subtraction multiplication and division and there are a couple others
I'll point out in just a moment but first I want to talk about these great outlines.
These are called comments in javascript if you type two forward slashes in a row it creates a comment
which javascript will just ignore.
So these aren't really useful in the console although I can type them as you can see here it just ignores
my code versus if I had this without a comment I get an error I can recall any line at any point with
the up arrow I can scroll through them.
So if I add two slashes to the beginning it's now ignored.
So I use this a lot to write notes a lot of developers do to explain what they're doing here.
I'm just using it to give you a label addition subtraction and so on.
So we can do basic addition and subtraction right.
Three plus four shocker and gives us seven.
We can do one point five plus eight we get nine point five.
We have subtraction twelve minus four point five six seven.
And we also have multiplication four times one point three.
Let's do one point two four point eight.
Cool.
When it clear again.
Now we have division.
Now there's a couple of things I want to talk about with division.
First of all it works how you'd expect four divided by two gives us two spacing.
As you probably already noticed it doesn't really matter here.
I could do four divided by two like this.
I can add space there.
It still works.
There are definite situations where spacing can be important and you don't want to do this because it's
impossible to look at.
It's ugly and confusing.
So I would stick to this or potentially that but I prefer this.
And remember you won't always have perfect precision something like 10 divided by three.
It's going to give us three point 3 3 3 3 3 3 Bob Barr 5 which it makes sense that we can't store this
irrational number where we have a million infinite threes.
It's not a million.
It's infinite threes.
So we get an approximation but just be aware of that.
Now there are some other operators.
There's one called modulo which some of you might be familiar with.
It's also known as the remainder operator.
What it will do is it takes the second upper end and divides it into the first and then it returns the
remainder that is left.
So two goes into 27.
It doesn't really matter how many times but it goes in 13 times which gives us 26.
And the remainder is 1 so we could test it out.
We use the percent sign.
So let's do 25 mod five.
Well it goes and cleanly so the remainder is zero.
Now if we did twenty five mod three this thing is spoiling it for me.
That's annoying.
It's giving you the answer already.
What about if we did 14 mod four.
Think about it.
All right.
14 mod four is two.
Four goes into 14.
Three times cleanly which gives us 12.
The remainder is two.
So that's modulo it will come back later.
We sometimes use it to determine if a number is even or odd if a number is cleanly divisible by two.
Then it is even and then the other operator I'll show you here is the exponent or exponential operator
which looks like this two star star.
If I do two star star 3 it is 2 to the third or 2 cubed two times two times two.
Five Star Star two gives us twenty five five times five.
And if I did five to the fifth we get three one to five.
So that is one way of doing exponents in JavaScript.
There is a different way we'll talk about later but I just want to throw it in here while we're talking
about operations.
The last thing I'll bring up is that we have the standard order of operations in javascript that most
of you probably learned in middle school or at some point in school where in more complicated expressions
different operators get precedence over others.
So if we have something like one let's do three minus nine times to we have multiplication which will
occur first that gives us 18 three minus 18 gives us negative 15 and we can use parentheses to modify
that parentheses is the highest or the first part of the order of operations the way I learned it was
paired us Parentheses Exponents multiplication division addition subtraction I know from one of my other
courses I use Pederson in other parts of the world they're taught with different acronyms but it's generally
the same order.
So we have three minus nine that gets done first which gives us negative six we multiply that by two
and we get negative twelve so you probably won't be doing a ton of really complex mathematical expressions
but if you need to you can use parentheses in the regular order of operations applies.
So that's numbers on its own.
Again right now we're kind of just treating JavaScript as a calculator.
I guess it's cool enough to do that but there's a lot more to the language.
This is just the basics of numbers.
Next up we'll talk about how we store these and recall them using variables.